added a guide to writing a platform configuration. (#289)
cylc/cylc-doc: src/admin-guide/writing-global-configurations/platforms.rst

    platform in the group.

    Preferred and backup hosts and platforms
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    **You can set how hosts are selected from platforms.**
    **You can set how platforms are selected from groups.**

    .. admonition:: Scenario

    You have operational cluster and a research cluster.
    You want your operational workflow to run on one of the operational
    platforms. If it becomes unavailable you want Cylc to start running
    jobs on the research cluster.

    .. code-block:: cylc
    :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

    [platforms]
        [[operational]]
            hosts = login_node_A1, login_node_A2
            batch system = pbs
            [[selection]]
                method = random  # the default anyway
        [[research]]
            hosts = primary, seconday, emergency
            batch system = pbs
            [[selection]]
                method = definition order
        [platform groups]
            [[operational_work]]
            platforms = operational, research
            [[[selection]]]
                method = definition order

    .. note::

>     Random is the default selection method.

Author: ```suggestion
    Random is the default selection method.

```

.. _AdminGuide.PlatformConfigs:

Writing Platform configurations
===============================

.. versionadded:: 8.0.0

.. seealso::

   - `The original platforms proposal on Cylc Admin <https://github.com/cylc/cylc-admin/blob/master/docs/proposal-platforms.md>`_.
   - :ref:`Platforms Cylc 7 to 8 user upgrade guide <MajorChangesPlatforms>`.
   - :cylc:conf:`flow.cylc[runtime][<namespace>]platform`
   - :cylc:conf:`global.cylc[platforms]`

What are platforms?
-------------------

Platforms define settings, most importantly a set of hosts and a

> ``job runner`` (formerly a ``batch system``) upon which Cylc can submit a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``job runner`` (formerly a ``batch system``) where Cylc can submit a
```

task job.

Why were platforms introduced?
------------------------------

- Allow a compute cluster with multiple login nodes to be treated as a single
  unit.

> - Allow Cylc to elegently handle failure of to communicate with login nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow Cylc to elegantly handle failure of to communicate with login nodes.
```

- Configure multiple platforms with the same hosts; for example you can use

> separate platforms to submit jobs to a batch system and to background on ``localhost``.

Author: ```suggestion
   separate platforms to submit jobs to a batch system and to background on 
   ``localhost``.
```

> - Configure multiple platforms which have the same hosts; for example using
>   ``localhost`` to submit jobs to a batch system and to background would be 
>   use seperate platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure multiple platforms with the same hosts; for example you can use
separate platforms to submit jobs to a batch system and to background on ``localhost``.
```

Example platforms
-----------------

> Lots of desktops
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lots of desktop computers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

- **Platform names are regular expressions.**
- **you can specify where to install job files.**

.. admonition:: Scenario

   Everyone in your organization has a computer called ``desktopNNN``,
   all with a file system shared with the scheduler host. Many users

>    will want a platform to run small jobs on thier computer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   will want a platform to run small jobs on their computer:
```

Cylc treats platform names as regular expressions, so in this case:

.. code-block:: cylc
   :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

   [platforms]
       [[desktop\d\d\d]]
           install target = localhost

will set up 1000 platforms, all with the same specification and one host per
platform. Job files can be installed on the workflow host.

.. note::

   Cylc carries out a "fullmatch" regular expression comparison with the

>    the platform name so ``desktop\d\d\d`` is effictively the same as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the platform name so ``desktop\d\d\d`` is effectively the same as
```

   ``^desktop\d\d\d$``.

> Cluster has multiple login nodes
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster with multiple login nodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

- **Platforms can group multiple hosts together.**

.. admonition:: Scenario

   You have a cluster where users submit to a single Slurm job queue from
   either of a pair of identical login nodes:

.. code-block:: cylc
   :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

   [platforms]
       [[spice_cluster]]
           hosts = login_node_1, login_node_2
           job runner = Slurm
           install target = login_node_1
           retrieve job logs = True

If either host is unavailable Cylc will attempt to start and communicate with

> jobs on the other login node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
jobs via the other login node.
```

Since the platform hosts do not share a file system with the scheduler
host we need to ask Cylc to retrieve job logs.

> Submit background and pbs jobs from localhost
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit background and PBS jobs from localhost
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> **Two platforms can share hosts and not share batch systems.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Platforms can share hosts and not share batch systems.**
```

**There is a built in localhost platform**

.. admonition:: Scenario

   You have a cluster where you can submit jobs from the Cylc scheduler host

>    using PBS, but also want to allow users to submit small jobs in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   using PBS, but also want to allow users to submit small jobs to the
```

   scheduler host:

.. code-block:: cylc
   :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

   [platforms]
       [[pbs_cluster]]
           host = localhost
           job runner = pbs
           install target = localhost
       [[scheduler_host\d\d]]
           host = localhost
           job runner = background

> But since and ``host`` defaults to ``localhost`` you can simplify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But ``host`` defaults to ``localhost`` so you can simplify
```

the ``[[pbs_cluster]]`` definition.

> If a job doesn't set a platform it will run on the Cylc scheduler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a job doesn't set a platform it will run on the Cylc scheduler host
```

using a default ``localhost`` platform.

As a result the above configuration can be simplified to:

.. code-block:: cylc
   :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

   [platforms]
       [[pbs_cluster]]
           job runner = pbs

.. TODO unindent this after you've got platforms from platform groups in
    Two similar clusters
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

    **Platform groups allow users to ask for jobs to be run on any
    suitable computer.**

    .. admonition:: Scenario

    Your site has two mirrored clusters with seperate PBS queues and
    file systems. Users don't mind which cluster is used and just
    want to set ``flow.cylc[runtime][mytask]platform = supercomputer``:

    .. code-block:: cylc
    :caption: part of a ``global.cylc`` config file

    [platforms]
        [[clusterA]]
            hosts = login_node_A1, login_node_A2
            batch system = pbs
        [[clusterB]]
            hosts = login_node_B1, login_node_B2
            batch system = pbs
        [platform groups]
            [[supercomputer]]
            platforms = clusterA, clusterB

    .. note::

    Why not just have one platform with all 4 login nodes?

>     Having hosts in a platform imply that Cylc can communicate with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Having hosts in a platform means that Cylc can communicate with
```

>     jobs through any host at any time. Platform groups allow Cylc to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    jobs via any host at any time. Platform groups allow Cylc to
```

    pick a platform when the job is started, but Cylc will not then

>     be able to communicate with that jobs through hosts on another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    be able to communicate with that job via hosts on another
```
